AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorA revolution is afoot in space. As the use of satellites transforms from a national and military-led enterprise to one dominated by businesses, governments worldwide are playing catch-up with the rules and regulations that apply. It’s now possible for a private enterprise with headquarters in the United States to launch Argentine satellites from New Zealand’s soil.Several new space start-ups are planning enormous “mega-constellations” of hundreds or even thousands of satellites in low Earth orbit (about 100 miles to 1,250 miles in altitude) in the next decade, and these too will challenge the regulatory framework. Only about a thousand or so operational satellites are in that region now, so the mega-constellation trend portends an increase of more than tenfold in active satellites in low Earth orbit, all within a matter of years.How much distance should separate these various constellations so that any collision in one doesn’t create havoc for those in higher or lower orbits? Currently, orbital slots in low Earth orbit are not assigned — you launch to wherever you like — but this laissez-faire attitude may soon need revisiting.The sustainable use of space hinges on how new space laws are enforced and coordinated across nations. With too little regulation, certain orbital altitudes could become unusable. Too much regulation, on the other hand, could choke off the commercial space revolution.Encouraging and enforcing good practices and the sustainable use of space should not come at the cost of drowning the private sector in more time-consuming paperwork. Many small start-ups don’t have the resources or the long time horizons to deal with the Balkanized, understaffed and glacial space licensing bureaucracy in the United States.The government will also need to invest in staffing the relevant offices. If regulatory streamlining doesn’t happen soon, there’s a real danger that space start-ups may get fed up and decide to base their headquarters overseas. Already, the United Arab Emirates and Luxembourg are pitching themselves as attractive commercial space hubs, offering incentives and accommodating regulatory frameworks as the proliferation of new technologies and companies continues apace.New endeavors like on-orbit satellite servicing and refueling are exciting developments but could also be misused. If you can grab and service your own satellite, you can also grab the satellite of an adversary or competitor. Should the hardware that gets placed in space be controlled, or just its conduct?AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS