AdvertisementSupported byOmarosa Manigault Newman, who achieved a measure of fame playing a villain on “The Apprentice” and cemented a relationship with President Trump that led to a White House appointment, will be leaving her position in January, the administration said on Wednesday.Ms. Newman “resigned yesterday to pursue other opportunities,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said in a statement. “Her departure will not be effective until Jan. 20, 2018. We wish her the best in future endeavors and are grateful for her service.”One of the president’s prominent African-American supporters, Ms. Newman served as the director of communications for the White House Office of Public Liaison. But the division, which was absent a clear leader for most of the year, atrophied with her in a key position.Two people close to the administration said Ms. Newman neglected to find enough attendees for a Black History Month event early in the administration, for instance. And the office — which is crucial for building coalitions — became seen as what one person close to the White House described as the “island of misfit toys,” where people who could not be slotted into other roles were sent.Reached by phone on Wednesday, Ms. Newman referred a reporter to Ms. Sanders’s statement about her departure.Three administration officials described reports of Ms. Newman being hauled off the White House grounds as overstated.Still, all three said that there was a precipitating event that finally got Mr. Trump on board with an effort by John F. Kelly, the current chief of staff, to remove her. Donald F. McGahn II, the White House counsel, was apprised throughout, one of the officials said. The event was kept at a close hold, and most advisers were uncertain about what happened, the officials said.While she will be paid through Jan. 20, Ms. Newman is not expected to return to work, the officials said.She was not well liked by some White House advisers, including Reince Priebus, the former chief of staff; Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser; and Mr. Kelly, according to multiple White House officials. Early in his tenure, Mr. Kelly identified the public liaison office as a major problem that he had to contend with, but it took months to move Ms. Newman to it, these people said.Armstrong Williams, a conservative media personality and business owner, said that he spoke to Ms. Newman on Wednesday morning and that she sounded both “torn” and “relieved.” Ms. Newman told Mr. Williams she had not been fired — she wanted to leave.At the White House, she mostly maintained a lower public profile. When she was preparing for her wedding, Ms. Newman told other White House advisers that she planned to ask Mr. Trump if she could have a reception in the building in her honor. When reporters learned of the plan, she abandoned the idea. But she did show up at the White House after her wedding with members of the wedding party, according to a person familiar with the events.“She has enemies, and they want to put her in the worst kind of light because they felt she was a polarizing figure, and now they get a chance,” Mr. Williams said of Ms. Newman. He added that no matter what people thought of Ms. Newman, Mr. Trump had rewarded her.“The president is very fond of Omarosa,” Mr. Williams said. “He saw her best qualities. He knew her shortcomings. He gave her a chance. He rewarded her for loyalty. He paid her well and gave her a lot of leeway.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS