AdvertisementUsing a tool that Facebook offers its users, our columnist found out more than he wanted to know about the social network, the ad industry and himself.It’s time to stop using technology and the internet as though you were shopping at a supermarket.Facebook and Twitter don’t make it easy to run your old posts through the scrubber. So our personal tech columnist took on the challenge.The social network may be too large to truly quit. Our personal tech columnist answers questions from readers who are contemplating deactivation.There are some practical solutions to safeguard some of your data, like installing software to block web tracking technologies.If your desktop Recycle Bin is nowhere to be found after you upgraded to Windows 10, here are some ways to get the icon back where it belongs.When using an open wireless network at a hotel or coffee shop, make sure that sites getting any of your personal information have their security certificates in order.With thousands of potential pictographs to add to text messages and other communications, some people may be looking for a way to narrow down the choices.Google’s willingness to share its Android software and let others adapt it for their own use has lead to different versions of the system on different devices.Delete old installation files and other unnecessary system detritus from your computer to free up hard-drive space.Our tech columnist tried to skip digital news for a while. His old-school experiment led to three main conclusions.A new generation of cameras like Google’s new Clips device can understand what they see, creating intriguing and sometimes eerie possibilities.Next to Apple’s iOS and Google’s Android, Amazon’s voice assistant may be turning into the third great consumer computing platform of our era.A start-up called Skydio has created a consumer drone that flies itself. Its tech is likely to become ubiquitous.How two tech-industry news sites, The Information and Stratechery, may show a path forward.Josh Haner, a photographer for The Times, discussed how the use of drones has changed storytelling.Rebecca Blumenstein, a deputy managing editor of The Times, shared the biggest developments that are coming and how her children use apps.Sapna Maheshwari, who covers advertising for The Times, discusses how she tracks the online ads that track us.Jonah Bromwich, a breaking news reporter at The Times, uses an arsenal of social media tools to catch the latest tweets, posts and comments to discern their patterns.Hanna Ingber, editorial director of The Times Reader Center, provided a how-to on using social media to converse with readers on topics from race to the weather.Following Goldman Sachs’s moves to begin trading Bitcoin, the New York Stock Exchange’s parent company is said to be in talks to open a virtual currency exchange.Drive.ai said it would start a taxi service in Texas. It was the first new rollout of autonomous cars in the United States since one operated by Uber killed a pedestrian in March.Top executives of the company, which was once tech’s biggest villain, are outspoken advocates for protecting user privacy and establishing ethical guidelines for new technology like artificial intelligence.The European Union is introducing some of the strictest online privacy rules in the world. The changes aim to give internet users more control.Academics have scoured Facebook pages in the name of science. But the troves they’ve amassed are sometimes unsecured and now pose a privacy risk.In a few hours you can make decisions on your rings, dress, reception and honeymoon locations. Here are a few websites and apps to inspire.By MARIANNE ROHRLICHWe’ve picked out the best 10-foot charging cable. Here’s why you’ll love your own.By ANN-MARIE ALCÁNTARAWith less than a month to go before the European Union enacts new consumer privacy laws for its citizens, companies around the world are updating their terms of service agreements to comply.By J. D. BIERSDORFERSmart-house technology has made it easier to turn on the lights and set the thermostat, but sometimes objects go rogue.By RONDA KAYSENBarnes & Noble’s line of digital-book hardware offers a few ways to keep and store your expanding collection.With a little help from an installer app, you can use new typefaces with certain programs on Apple’s tablet and other mobile devices.By J. D. BIERSDORFERIf your phone uses a single port for the charger and headphones, you can still power the battery while you listen to music — with the help of some additional gear.By J. D. BIERSDORFERYou can attach one to a post or a status update, but only if you are using a certain type of Facebook page.By J. D. BIERSDORFERDevious code is sending people to fraudulent quiz and contest pages, so ignore that “lucky winner” notice and run a security scan.By J. D. BIERSDORFERIf your screen has become jumbled with too many open files, folders and programs to manage, you can quickly sort the pile.By J. D. BIERSDORFERThe incognito and private browsing modes built into most modern browsers shield your online activity at home — but maybe not to the rest of the world.By J. D. BIERSDORFERIf your Windows 10 lock screen changes daily or slows you down in getting to your desktop, you can change its behavior.By J. D. BIERSDORFERGoogle’s smartphone software includes a set of tools to help you type — but if they trip you up, turn them off.By J. D. BIERSDORFERInternet con artists hope their crafty coding will fool you into asking for their fraudulent tech-support services, but you can often escape with a few keystrokes.By J. D. BIERSDORFERIf you can’t get your printer on the network, you may be able to get assistance without waiting for a human to come to the phone.By J. D. BIERSDORFERPhotographers who want to leave the bulky laptop at home can edit and save images in the uncompressed RAW format right on Apple’s tablet.By J. D. BIERSDORFERIf a scammer has swiped your password and is using your account to spew spam, take action and add measures to help stop it from happening again.By J. D. BIERSDORFERFacebook’s “post tabs” try to keep you in the conversation your friends are having about your posts, but you can turn off the tabs.By J. D. BIERSDORFERMany financial institutions offer fraud alerts by text, but if you’re not sure the message is real, call the company directly or check your account online.By J. D. BIERSDORFERIf you are getting ready to upgrade your e-reader or tablet and want to take your existing e-book library along, consider your options.By J. D. BIERSDORFERKeep up with the latest in technology. Every Thursday, enjoy tech news and reviews.In a few hours you can make decisions on your rings, dress, reception and honeymoon locations. Here are a few websites and apps to inspire.By MARIANNE ROHRLICHWe’ve picked out the best 10-foot charging cable. Here’s why you’ll love your own.By ANN-MARIE ALCÁNTARAWith less than a month to go before the European Union enacts new consumer privacy laws for its citizens, companies around the world are updating their terms of service agreements to comply.By J. D. BIERSDORFERSmart-house technology has made it easier to turn on the lights and set the thermostat, but sometimes objects go rogue.By RONDA KAYSENBarnes & Noble’s line of digital-book hardware offers a few ways to keep and store your expanding collection.With a little help from an installer app, you can use new typefaces with certain programs on Apple’s tablet and other mobile devices.By J. D. BIERSDORFERIf your phone uses a single port for the charger and headphones, you can still power the battery while you listen to music — with the help of some additional gear.By J. D. BIERSDORFERYou can attach one to a post or a status update, but only if you are using a certain type of Facebook page.By J. D. BIERSDORFERDevious code is sending people to fraudulent quiz and contest pages, so ignore that “lucky winner” notice and run a security scan.By J. D. BIERSDORFERIf your screen has become jumbled with too many open files, folders and programs to manage, you can quickly sort the pile.By J. D. BIERSDORFERThe incognito and private browsing modes built into most modern browsers shield your online activity at home — but maybe not to the rest of the world.By J. D. BIERSDORFERIf your Windows 10 lock screen changes daily or slows you down in getting to your desktop, you can change its behavior.By J. D. BIERSDORFERGoogle’s smartphone software includes a set of tools to help you type — but if they trip you up, turn them off.By J. D. BIERSDORFERInternet con artists hope their crafty coding will fool you into asking for their fraudulent tech-support services, but you can often escape with a few keystrokes.By J. D. BIERSDORFERIf you can’t get your printer on the network, you may be able to get assistance without waiting for a human to come to the phone.By J. D. BIERSDORFERPhotographers who want to leave the bulky laptop at home can edit and save images in the uncompressed RAW format right on Apple’s tablet.By J. D. BIERSDORFERIf a scammer has swiped your password and is using your account to spew spam, take action and add measures to help stop it from happening again.By J. D. BIERSDORFERFacebook’s “post tabs” try to keep you in the conversation your friends are having about your posts, but you can turn off the tabs.By J. D. BIERSDORFERMany financial institutions offer fraud alerts by text, but if you’re not sure the message is real, call the company directly or check your account online.By J. D. BIERSDORFERIf you are getting ready to upgrade your e-reader or tablet and want to take your existing e-book library along, consider your options.By J. D. BIERSDORFERGo to Home Page »