AdvertisementSupported byOn TechnologyMy old iPad just turned five, and it’s starting to die. If it could wonder about such things, it might question this prognosis. Its memory, after all, still retrieves information as quickly as it ever did. Its face hasn’t aged a day, projecting as vividly as it did in 2012, when Apple called it “stunning” and “gorgeous.” It hasn’t suffered vision loss; the camera still works. The touch-screen works. Buttons work. Speaker, headphone jack, charging port: All still do what I ask of them. On examination, almost nothing about the device seems to have changed. And yet it’s starting to give up, and so am I.It hasn’t been used up; it’s just too old. A pristine iPad from the same era, forgotten in a storeroom and never touched, would be equally useless. The moment it came online, it would demand to be updated; as soon as it was, it would find itself in the same grim predicament as my device, which has been at work for half a decade.Fifteen years ago, before I would replace a desktop computer or a laptop, it would have quite conspicuously broken down, its fans getting louder, its spinning hard drive grinding to a halt. When I would replace it with something newer or faster or more capable, it would enter a promising second life: it could be repurposed as a spare, a computer for a friend, a terminal for playing old games or for doing undistracted work. It could be given to someone who could make use of it.As I did when I first got it, I still use my old iPad for passive consumption: reading, watching videos, checking feeds. My routine has barely changed, but one by one, formerly easy tasks have become strained. Social apps have become slow, videos take longer to load and Safari can’t seem to handle the most important and fundamental services of the modern web.As my iPad has aged, I’ve started to notice it more, not because I’m growing fonder, but because I’m getting frustrated: by the fact that it won’t do what it ought to or even what it used to. But what I find most frustrating of all is the gradual disappearance of all options other than buying a new iPad. I understand the reasons for this. I understand the concept of “planned obsolescence” less as a conspiracy than as the unfortunate but universal prerogative of dominant, profit-driven companies that make their money from selling hardware.In a world more accommodating toward my old iPad, I might squeeze another five years out of it by replacing the one part of these devices that tends to fail: the battery. I could purchase a kit from a site like iFixit, with a fresh battery and tools to pry my iPad apart, for $39.99. But the repair is quite involved and requires, among 71 other steps, heating up the device in order to pry its screen free of its glue. I could send it to Apple, which says out-of-warranty iPad battery service is $99 plus $6.95 in shipping plus local taxes, which totals more than I would get if I sent it to an Apple partner called Brightstar to be “recycled”: a $45 gift card to the Apple store. Lower down the rung is Gazelle, a company that buys old devices and resells them, often abroad. A tool on their website offered me $30, conditionally.Perhaps the best option is to sell my old iPad overseas to a consumer who understands what it is: not quite an iPad, but nevertheless a machine that will still chat, that will manage FaceTime, that can receive email or maybe take payments for a shop. But before long, it will lose the ability to do these things. It will still be a wonder of industrial design and a technological marvel, right up until the moment it is destroyed for scrap.John Herrman is a David Carr Fellow at The New York Times.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS